---
layout: post
title: MQTT <--> 433 MHz Bridge
subtitle: A 433/MQTT Bridge for the Zap sockets
tags: [mqtt,433Mhz,esp8266]
comments: false
---

I have some of the [Zap/Etekcity remote outlets](https://www.etekcity.com/product/100068).
One outlet is used to control the overhead lights in the front room.
Another outlet controls a lamp by my chair in the same room.
Other outlets are used at various times and circumstances, for instance, to control the Christmas tree lights.

I thought it would be useful/fun to control these outlets through Home Assistant or other wifi enabled devices.
I found a project called [OpenMQTTGateway](https://github.com/1technophile/OpenMQTTGateway) by [1technophile](https://1technophile.blogspot.com/).
This seems like the exact project I need for my application. Thanks 1technophile!

The first thing I needed to do was to find out what codes my Zap remote generated.
And, of course, I go down a rabbit hole post haste.
There was a sticker on my remote and on the outlet that said "315".
So I figured the devices were using 315 MHz.
I used rtl_433 to search for the signal in the 315 MHz range but couldn't find it.
Finally, I read the fine print on one of the outlets and saw that it uses 433.92 MHz.
I found that my remote produces the following codes:  

| button | ON | OFF |
| ------ | ----- | ----- |
| 1 | 21811 | 21820 |
| 2 | 21955 | 21964 |
| 3 | 22275 | 22284 |
| 4 | 23811 | 23820 |
| 5 | 29955 | 29964 |

I purchased 433 MHz transmitter and receiver modules from [AliExpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/32859613401.html).
I made antennas using hook-up wire rather than the steel springs shipped.
I used a Wemos D1 mini for the processor/wifi and built up the project on a protoboard.
Next I git cloned OpenMQTTGateway and edited User_config.h to enable ZgatewayRF and add my WIFI/MQTT info.
The RF to MQTT worked right away, but the MQTT to RF did not.
I finally added my own routine to transmit the codes in ZgatewayRF.cpp to get it working.

Just for grins, I added a DHT11 sensor. To get that working, I enabled ZsensorDHT in User_config.h.

Currently, everything is still on a small protoboard.
I would like to put everything in a project box.
This is where most of my projects peter out.
I am not good at putting things in boxes and making it look nice.

There are two antennas and I am wondering if I can reduce it to one by using a DPDT relay.
I would switch the antenna back and forth between the receiver and the transmitter on one pole and switch a 50 ohm load on the other pole.
The default relay state would connect the antenna to the receiver and the 50 ohm load to the transmitter.
